<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-GB">

<head>
  <script src="footertext.js"></script>
  <script src="../headerfooter.js"></script>
  <title>LOTO</title>
</head>

<body>
  <header>
    <h1>LOTO: Layout Of Trail Orienteering</h1>
  </header>
  <nav class="right"><a href="help/index.xhtml" target="help" rel="help">Help</a></nav>
  <main>
    <p>LOTO is open-source software for constructing the map cards for timed controls, both TempO and PreO, in
      TrailO. <a
        href="https://www.britishorienteering.org.uk/images/uploaded/minisite58/JK19_TempO_TCMapCards_Elite%5B7463%5D.pdf"
        rel="external">View sample output.</a></p>
    <p><a href="wizard.xhtml">Start LOTO</a></p>
    <h2>Key Advantages Over Other Software</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>Depends only on free software.</li>
      <li>Cut control circles and print them using overprint effect, so that black and contours are visible through the
        circle.</li>
      <li>Produces PDFs with vector graphics, ready for beautifully sharp printing.</li>
      <li>Produces a ZIP of PNGs ready for upload into <a href="http://www.yq.cz/trail-o/TempO/"
          target="prerequisites">TempO Simulator</a>.</li>
      <li>Map card maker runs in your web browser with no installation required, although it does require one
        third-party program to prepare the maps.</li>
      <li>Your data never leaves your computer, with all processing done locally. If extra security is required, you can
        <a href="help/security.xhtml" target="help">run the software disconnected from the internet</a>.</li>
      <li>Open source, so anybody can contribute and improve TCTemplate.</li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Other Advantages</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>Prints a sheet ready for cutting and laminating; no glue required.</li>
      <li>Compliant with the IOF rules of TrailO, so it is difficult for the planner to not follow the rules.</li>
      <li>Default A5 template with options to customise the layout and the choice of a circular or square map in any
        permitted size.</li>
      <li>Prints two cards per A4 sheet, saving paper and ensuring regular printers can be used.</li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Previous Use in Competitions</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>JK, 19-20<sup>th</sup> April 2019 - ECTO TempO &amp; PreO - <a
          href="https://www.britishorienteering.org.uk/images/uploaded/minisite58/JK19_TempO_TCMapCards_Elite%5B7463%5D.pdf"
          rel="external">View TempO maps for the elite class</a></li>
      <li>East Harptree Woods, 2<sup>nd</sup> September 2018 - British Ranking PreO</li>
      <li>JK, 30<sup>th</sup> March-1<sup>st</sup> April 2018 - TempO &amp; PreO</li>
    </ul>
    <h2>Change Log</h2>
    <p>Version numbers are not issued, because updates are pushed as soon as they are ready. If you have downloaded a
      copy of the software, check the timestamp on the webpage, or check the commit number on Github. Changes that are
      unlikely to be noticed by the user are not listed here.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>TBC: Renamed from TCTemplate</li>
      <li>27/02/21: Customise resolution and image size for online TempO.</li>
      <li>24/01/21: Cover sheet and better colours for online TempO.</li>
      <li>10/06/20: Faster compiler that shows progress.</li>
      <li>31/05/20: Creates PNGs for <a href="http://www.yq.cz/trail-o/TempO/" target="prerequisites">TempO
          Simulator</a>.</li>
      <li>15/04/20: Leave the control descriptions at default size in Purple Pen but still produces 7 mm boxes on map
        cards. Other bug fixes.</li>
      <li>06/11/19: All sheets now print in the same position, so a guillotine may be used on multiple sheets
        simultaneously.</li>
    </ul>
  </main>
  <nav>
    <p><a href="wizard.xhtml">Start LOTO</a></p>
    <p><a href="help/index.xhtml" target="help">View help files</a></p>
  </nav>
</body>

</html>
