<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-GB">
<head>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../WizardStyle.css" />

  <!--Favicons-->
  <link rel="apple-touch-icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/noborder152.png" sizes="152x152" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/favicon512.png" sizes="512x512" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/favicon256.png" sizes="256x256" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/favicon192.png" sizes="192x192" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/favicon32.png" sizes="32x32" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" href="../favicon/favicon16.png" sizes="16x16" />

  <title>TCTemplate Help: LaTeX</title>
</head>
<body>
  <header>
    <h1>TCTemplate Help</h1>
    <h2>LaTeX Compilers</h2>
  </header>
  <main>
    <p>The PDFs of the map cards are generated using LaTeX. It is recommended that you compile it in the browser using the <em>Generate map cards</em> button, but sometimes you may encounter technical problems, or just prefer to use your own LaTeX compiler anyway. Two methods of compiling are:</p>
    <h3>Online Using Overleaf</h3>
    <p>This is the simplest option for getting started, if you are unfamiliar with LaTeX.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Download <a href="../TCTemplate.tex" download="TCTemplate.tex">TCTemplate.tex</a> to an empty folder.</li>
      <li>Click on the <em>Save station data</em> button and save the produced file (TemplateParameters.tex) to the same folder.</li>
      <li>Copy the maps PDF file to the folder and rename it to <code>Maps.pdf</code> (case sensitive).</li>
      <li>Copy the control descriptions PDF file to the folder and rename it to <code>CDs.pdf</code> (case sensitive).</li>
      <li>
        Compress the four files into a Zip archive.
        <ul>
          <li>Windows: Select all the files, right click, then click <em>Send to->Compressed (zipped) folder</em>.</li>
          <li>MacOS: Go up one level, right click on the folder, then click <em>Compress</em>.</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Create a free <a href="https://www.overleaf.com/" target="Overleaf">Overleaf</a> account and log in.</li>
      <li>Click on the upload button next to <em>New Project</em> in the top left of the screen, then choose <em>Upload Zip</em>.</li>
      <li>Upload the Zip archive you just created.</li>
      <li>Click on <em>PDF</em> on the top row of the screen to create and download the produced map cards, ready for printing.</li>
    </ol>
    <h3>Other LaTeX Compilers</h3>
    <p>Although Overleaf works well, compiling locally on your computer is faster, so is recommended if you're helping to develop TCTemplate. The Javascript version in the browser uses <a href="https://www.tug.org/texlive/" target="TeXLive">TeX Live</a> (ported using Emscripten), so you could try that - it works on all major operating systems. Follow steps 1-4 above, then compile <code>TCTemplate.tex</code>.</p>
  </main>
  <footer>
    <p class="right">Last updated (UTC): 9<sup>th</sup> May 2020 21:01</p>
    <p class="right">Copyright (c) 2017-20 TCTemplate contributors, maintained by Tom Dobra: <a href="license.xhtml">view license</a></p>
  </footer>
</body>
</html>
